.TH "bmon" "8" "" "Bandwidth Monitor" "bmon"
.SH "NAME"
bmon \- bandwidth monitor and rate estimator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B bmon
[\fB\-\-show\-all\fR]
[\fB\-\-use\-si\fR]
[\fB\-\-input\fR=\fIMODULE\fR]
[\fB\-\-output\fR=\fIMODULE\fR]
[OPTIONS...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
bmon is a monitoring and debugging tool to capture networking related
statistics and prepare them visually in a human friendly way. It
features various output methods including an interactive curses user
interface and a programmable text output for scripting.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints a short help text and exits\&.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 4
Prints the versioning identifier and exits\&.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-i\fR, \fB\-\-input=\fRMODULE[:OPTIONS][,MODULE...]
.RS 4
Set list of input modules to load and use. Multiple modules can be used
in parallel. bmon automatically loads a useful and working input module
by default. See INPUT MODULES for more details.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-o\fR, \fB\-\-output=\fRMODULE[:OPTIONS][,MODULE...]
.RS 4
Set list of output modules to load and use. Multiple modules can be used
in parallel. By default, bmon will use the curses output mode, if that is
not available due to an incompatible console it will fall back to a simple
text mode. See OUTPUT MODULES for more details.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-U\fR, \fB\-\-use\-si\fR
.RS 4
Use SI unit system (1KB = 1'000 bytes) instead of 1KB = 1'024 bytes.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-f\fR, \fB\-\-configfile=\fRFILE
.RS 4
Set alternative path to configuration file.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-p\fR, \fB\-\-policy=\fRPOLICY
.RS 4
Set policy defining which network interfaces to display. See
INTERFACE SELECTION for more details.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-a\fR, \fB\-\-show\-all\fR
.RS 4
Display all interfaces, even interface that are administratively down.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-r\fR, \fB\-\-read\-interval=\fRFLOAT
.RS 4
Set interval in seconds in which input modules read statistics from their
source. The default is 1.0 seconds.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-R\fR, \fB\-\-rate\-interval=\fRFLOAT
.RS 4
Set interval in seconds in which the rate per counter is calculated.
The default is 1.0 seconds.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-b\fR, \fB\-\-use\-bit\fR
.RS 4
Show rates in bits per second instead of bytes per second.
.RE
.PP
\fB \-L\fR, \fB\-\-lifetime=\fRFLOAT
.RS 4
Set lifetime of an element in seconds before it is no longer displayed
without receiving any statistical updates. The default is 30 seconds.
.RE

.SH "INPUT MODULES"
.PP
Input modules provide statistical data about elements. Each element consists
of attributes which represents a counter, a rate, or a percentage. Elements
may carry additional child elements to represent a hierarchy. Each element is
assigned to a group defined by the input module. Input modules are polled in
the frequence of the configured read interval.
.PP
The following input modules are available:
.TP
\fBnetlink\fR
Uses the Netlink protocol to collect interface and traffic control statistics
from the kernel. This is the default input module.

.TP
\fBproc\fR
Reads interface statistics from the /proc/net/dev file. This is considered a
legacy interface and provided for backwards compatibily reasons. This is a
fallback module if the Netlink interface is not available.

.TP
\fBdummy\fR
Programmable input module for debugging and testing purposes.

.TP
\fBnull\fR
No data collected.

.PP
To receive additional information about a module, run the module with the
"help" option set like this:

.PP
.RS 4
bmon \-i netlink:help
.RE

See MODULE CONFIGURATION for more details.

.SH "OUTPUT MODULES"
.PP
Output modules display or export the statistical data collected by input
modules. Multiple output modules can be run at the same time. bmon will
not prevent possible conflicts such as multiple output modules writing to
the console.
.PP
The following output modules exist:

.TP
\fBcurses\fR
Interactive curses based text user interface providing real time rate
estimations and a graphical representation of each attribute. Press '?'
to display the quick reference guide. This is the default output mode.

.TP
\fBascii\fR
Simple programmable text output intended for human consumption. Capable
of printing list of interfaces, detailed counters and graphs to the
console. This is the default fallback output mode if curses is not
available.

.TP
\fBformat\fR
Fully scriptable output mode inteded for consumption by other programs.
See the module help text for additional information.

.TP
\fBnull\fR
Disable output.

.PP
To receive additional information about a module, run the module with the
"help" option set like this:

.PP
.RS 4
bmon \-o curses:help
.RE

See MODULE CONFIGURATION for more details.

.SH "MODULE CONFIGURATION"
.PP
The syntax to configure modules is as follows:
.PP
.RS 4
ARGUMENT ::= mod1[:OPTS][,mod2[:OPTS]...]
.br
OPTS     ::= OPTION[;OPTION...]
.br
OPTION   ::= option[=value]
.RE

.PP
Run the module with option "help" to receive the list of options for each
module:

.PP
.RS 4
bmon \-i module:help
.RE

.SH "INTERFACE SELECTION"
.PP
The following syntax is used to define the interface selection policy:
.PP
.RS 4
SELECTION ::= NAME[,NAME[,...]]
.br
NAME      ::= [!]interface
.RE

.PP
The interface name may contain the character '*' which will act as a wildcard
and represents any number of any character type, e.g. eth*, h*0, ...

.PP
Examples:

.PP
.RS 4
lo,eth0,eth1
.br
eth*,!eth0
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
To run bmon in curses mode monitoring the interfaces eth0
and eth1:
.PP
.RS 4
\fBbmon \-p eth0,eth1 \-o curses\fP
.RE
.PP
To run bmon in format mode, monitoring any eth* interfaces, with a specified
format string:
.PP
.RS 4
\fBbmon \-p \(aqeth*\(aq \-o format:fmt=\(aq$(element:name) $(attr:rxrate:packets)\en\(aq\fP
.RE
.PP

.SH "FILES"
/etc/bmon.conf
.br
$HOME/.bmonrc

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBip\fR(8),
\fBnetstat\fR(8),
\fBifconfig\fR(8),
\fBnetlink\fR(7),

.SH "AUTHOR"
Thomas Graf <tgraf@suug.ch> among others
